\chapter{Introduction}

Connectivity is essential for modern society. The ability to keep in
touch, share knowledge and collaborate remotely is growing evermore
important. A fundamental group of technologies and infrastructure
enables these facets, all categorized within the telecommunications
umbrella. Telecommunication businesses around the world compete to
provide the best service, while assisting one another to enable a
greater reach.

For a user of these technologies and infrastructure, identification
is required to ascertain the authenticity and capabilities that
should be provided. This is provided through a Subscriber Identity
Module (SIM) \cite{sim}, a type of Smart Card \cite{smartcard}, that
stores encryption keys and application files utilized to verify the
subscriber in the telecommunications network. These SIM may have
varying support when roaming or if a device is 4G- or 5G-enabled.

Considering the varying support for SIM configurations in different
telecommunication networks, there is an interest for utilities that
can easily enable testing, configuration and manipulation of SIM:s,
preferably with user equipment (UE) in altering locations and a bank
of SIM in an easily (though not unauthorized) accessible office space
that allows hot-swapping of the SIM connected to the differing UE.

The goal of this work is to develop said utilities that provide a
SIM bank, user equipment connectivity and a mediation service. The
mediation service enables pairing of SIM-to-UE with a logical
hot-swapping facility, rendering physical access to the SIM bank
only occasionally required rather than consistently.
