\chapter{Methodology}

This chapter elaborates on the material, equipment and methods used
to derive a solution to the problem statements in
chapter~\ref{sec:problem-formulation}.

\section{Materials and equipment}
\label{sec:materials-and-equipment}

This section lists the equipment, material and tools used in the
implementation. Fig.~\ref{fig:simplified-system-diagram} shows how
the majority of the physical components are connected.

\begin{figure}[ht]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{images/system-simplified.mmd.png}
	\caption{Overview of the intended system diagram}
	\label{fig:simplified-system-diagram}
\end{figure}

\subsection{SIMtrace 2}

The SIMtrace 2 by Osmocom is an open hardware platform with open
source software \cite{simtrace}. It comes preloaded with SIM
tracing firmware called \verb|trace| \cite{simtrace-wiki} but
additional firmware for smart card emulation exists, provided by
Osmocom. This firmware is called \verb|cardem| \cite{simtrace-wiki}
and is used for communicating with user equipment, sending APDU:s
either constructed by software or forwarded from a remotely
accessed smart card. The hardware is capable of tracing and
emulating all kinds of ISO 7816 \cite{etsi-ts-102-221} smart cards
when the T=0 protocol is used \cite{simtrace-wiki} but the focus is
on SIM.

\subsection{Raspberry Pi 4}

Two Raspberry Pi 4 units are used due to the ubiquity and
portability of the hardware platform. The main computer
requirements based on the proposed system are two Linux-based
devices with USB and IP network connectivity capabilities,
rendering most computer systems a viable choice where the choice of
Raspberry Pi is due to the small form factor, inexpensive hardware
and lower power drain, though none of those properties are a
requirement.

\subsection{Teltonika RUT200 v2.0}

The Teltonika RUT200 v2.0 is used as provisional user equipment the
SIMtrace 2 hardware running \verb|cardem| connects to, meaning the
receiver of forwarded APDU:s from a remotely accessed smart card.
The device provides 2G, 3G and 4G capabilities for mobile network
connectivity, authenticated to via the remotely accessed smart card
and has a WiFi and Ethernet interface allowing wired and wireless
connections and internet access, acting as a gateway between the
mobile network and the local network.

\subsection{Smart card readers, SIM, server, and router}

Generic physical smart card readers are used for enabling access to
smart cards for the Raspberry Pi which will forward communications
from the smart card over IP to a destination device, e.g. a server
or a peer Raspberry Pi connected to a SIMtrace unit and user
equipment.

A server, virtual or not, is used as a central connectivity hub
enabling rerouting of SIM-to-UE communication to a either a
different UE or a different SIM. A basic router will be used to
provide IP network access for the Raspberry Pi and internet access
to the aforementioned connectivity hub.

\subsection{Automated tooling}

Tools for documentation generation will be utilized, both for
automatic generation of changelogs that document available
functionality in an operational perspective but also tools that
generate software library documentation from code comments.
Examples of such tools are Doxygen \cite{doxygen} for software
library documentation generation and git-cliff \cite{git-cliff} for
changelog generation.

To enable changelog generation, git-cliff requires a consistent
format of git commits \cite{git-cliff} called Conventional Commits
\cite{conventional-commits}. This, using git-cliff also enables
automatic version numbering \cite{git-cliff-bump-version} by
following the Semantic Versioning (SemVer) specification
\cite{semver}. If required, additional commit types will be created
and documented with custom git parsers added to git-cliff
\cite{git-cliff-tips-and-tricks}.

Automated testing will be conducted to ensure that requirements are
upheld. The testing will be implemented using GoogleTest
\cite{googletest} and Google Mock \cite{googletest}. The tests will
run on the continuous integration/continuous deployment (CI/CD)
platform GitHub Actions \cite{github-actions} to ensure that no
regressions have been committed. Google Test will be used for
authoring of tests and Google Mock is utilized for mocks used by
the tests.

Performance regressions will be detected by the use of automated
benchmarking. The primary implementation will be via Google's
microbenchmark support library \cite{google-benchmark} for smaller
units and \verb|perf| \cite{perf} will be used for full application
benchmarking if necessary. \verb|perf| will, however, not be
automated.

\section{Prototype development}
\label{sec:prototype-development}

The initial development is for explorative purposes, to create a
prototype \cite[62]{sommerville-software-engineering}
\cite[56]{thomas-hunt-pragmatic-programmer} where ideas lead to
requirements, what to test for in the benchmarking and
functionality experiment listed in
section~\ref{sec:experimentation} which alongside the TARA
explained in section~\ref{sec:tara} drives the decisions behind the
final implementation. Requirements engineering and experimentation,
elaborated on below, will use knowledge acquired in the prototyping
phase while also themselves provide additional information that can
sprout new concepts to initially implement in the prototype before
adding to the final implementation.

\begin{figure}[ht]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.9\textwidth]{images/prototype.mmd.png}
	\caption{Prototype system overview}
	\label{fig:prototype-diagram}
\end{figure}

The prototype, as shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:prototype-diagram}, only
requires the functionality for communication between the two
Raspberry Pi:s used, while being restricted to only a singular SIM
and singular UE. The communication protocol between the two
computers is a simple insecure protocol on top of TCP instead of
anything that may be proposed in the TARA. The security
considerations are not as important in the lab environment the
prototype is developed within and has no customer-sensitive
information, allowing an insecure communications protocol.

\section{Threat assessment and remediation analysis}
\label{sec:tara}

The threat assessment and remediation analysis (TARA) \cite{tara}
directly responds to the security considerations in
section~\ref{sec:problem-formulation} by, alongside STRIDE
\cite{stride}, providing an analytical framework to identify and
classify security risks. The TARA is conducted on the intended
system overview shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:simplified-system-diagram}.

\section{Software requirements engineering}
\label{sec:software-requirements-engineering}

Requirements elicitation will be used in tandem with the prototype
development and experimentation to narrow down and define what the
final product should look like. Specification of requirements will
use the collected knowledge and experience from prototyping and
experimentation both in structured natural language
\cite[121]{sommerville-software-engineering}, as well as automated
tests where possible \cite{test-cases-as-requirements}. Validation
will happen in accordance with the following sections and change
management will be handled by version control management (using
\verb|git| \cite{git}) and structured documents listing
stakeholders, what and why, as well as assigning a requirement
identifier to each requirement. By using \verb|git|, each commit
can contain relevant information on why a requirement was changed.

\subsection{Compilation of specifications}

Aside from the requirements for the software solution, the
specifications \cite{etsi-ts-102-221, etsi-ts-131-102} themselves
pose practical requirements for a functional system. Therefore,
they are an additional source of non-functional requirements.
Following the specifications also provide a validation angle for
the authored requirements.

\subsection{Existing solutions and usage}

Existing solutions such as \cite{osmocom-remsim} provide knowledge
to compare with regarding how to solve the fundamental functional
requirements aiding in validation of the system requirements. The
existing material may also provide additional information not found
in the specifications, giving a fuller picture of system
requirements.
